{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;\red0\green0\blue233;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ft.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 FT.com}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://help.ft.com/help/legal-privacy/terms-conditions/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 T&Cs}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://help.ft.com/help/legal-privacy/copyright/copyright-policy/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Copyright Policy}}. Email {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:licensing@ft.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 licensing@ft.com}} to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ft.com/tour"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 found here}}. \
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ft.com/content/a0dfedd1-5255-4fa9-8ccc-1fe01de87ea6"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 https://www.ft.com/content/a0dfedd1-5255-4fa9-8ccc-1fe01de87ea6}}\
\
OpenAI says it has evidence China\'92s DeepSeek used its model to train competitor White House AI tsar David Sacks raises possibility of alleged intellectual property theft OpenAI says Chinese rivals are constantly trying to \'91distil\'92 the models of leading US companies in the field \'a9 Dado Ruvic/Reuters OpenAI says it has evidence China\'92s DeepSeek used its model to train competitor on x (opens in a new window) OpenAI says it has evidence China\'92s DeepSeek used its model to train competitor on facebook (opens in a new window) OpenAI says it has evidence China\'92s DeepSeek used its model to train competitor on linkedin (opens in a new window) Share Save Pro Features Configuration current progress 89% Cristina Criddle in San Francisco and Eleanor Olcott in Beijing 4 HOURS AGO 659 Print this page OpenAI says it has found evidence that Chinese artificial intelligence start-up DeepSeek used the US company\'92s proprietary models to train its own open-source competitor, as concerns grow over a potential breach of intellectual property. The San Francisco-based ChatGPT maker told the Financial Times it had seen some evidence of \'93distillation\'94, which it suspects to be from DeepSeek. The technique is used by developers to obtain better performance on smaller models by using outputs from larger, more capable ones, allowing them to achieve similar results on specific tasks at a much lower cost. Distillation is a common practice in the industry but the concern was that DeepSeek may be doing it to build its own rival model, which is a breach of OpenAI\'92s terms of service. \'93The issue is when you [take it out of the platform and] are doing it to create your own model for your own purposes,\'94 said one person close to OpenAI. OpenAI declined to comment further or provide details of its evidence. Its terms of service state users cannot \'93copy\'94 any of its services or \'93use output to develop models that compete with OpenAI\'94. DeepSeek\'92s release of its R1 reasoning model has surprised markets, as well as investors and technology companies in Silicon Valley. Its built-on-a-shoestring models have attained high rankings and comparable results to leading US models. Shares in Nvidia fell 17 per cent on Monday, wiping $589bn off its market value, on fears that big investments in its expensive AI hardware might not be needed. They recovered by 9 per cent on Tuesday, along with other tech stocks. OpenAI and its partner Microsoft investigated accounts believed to be DeepSeek\'92s last year that were using OpenAI\'92s application programming interface (API) and blocked their access on suspicion of distillation that violated the terms of service, another person with direct knowledge said. These investigations were first reported by Bloomberg. Microsoft declined to comment and OpenAI did not immediately respond to a request for comment on this detail. DeepSeek did not respond to a request for comment made during the lunar new year holiday. Recommended News in-depthDeepSeek DeepSeek\'92s \'91aha moment\'92 creates new way to build powerful AI with less money Earlier, President Donald Trump\'92s AI and crypto tsar David Sacks said \'93it is possible\'94 that IP theft had occurred. \'93There\'92s a technique in AI called distillation
\f1 \uc0\u8201 
\f0 .
\f1 \uc0\u8201 
\f0 .
\f1 \uc0\u8201 
\f0 .
\f1 \uc0\u8201 
\f0 when one model learns from another model [and] kind of sucks the knowledge out of the parent model,\'94 Sacks told Fox News on Tuesday. \'93And there\'92s substantial evidence that what DeepSeek did here is they distilled the knowledge out of OpenAI models, and I don\'92t think OpenAI is very happy about this,\'94 Sacks added, although he did not provide evidence. DeepSeek said it used just 2,048 Nvidia H800 graphics cards and spent $5.6mn to train its V3 model with 671bn parameters, a fraction of what OpenAI and Google spent to train comparably sized models. Some experts said the model generated responses that indicated it had been trained on outputs from OpenAI\'92s GPT-4, which would violate its terms of service.\'a0 Industry insiders say that it is common practice for AI labs in China and the US to use outputs from companies such as OpenAI, which have invested in hiring people to teach their models how to produce responses that sound more human. This is expensive and labour-intensive, and smaller players often piggyback off this work, say the insiders. \'93It is a very common practice for start-ups and academics to use outputs from human-aligned commercial LLMs, like ChatGPT, to train another model,\'94 said Ritwik Gupta, a PhD candidate in AI at the University of California, Berkeley. \'93That means you get this human feedback step for free. It is not surprising to me that DeepSeek supposedly would be doing the same. If they were, stopping this practice precisely may be difficult,\'94 he added. The practice highlights the difficulty for companies keen to protect their technical edge. \'93We know [China]-based companies \'97 and others \'97 are constantly trying to distil the models of leading US AI companies,\'94 OpenAI said in its latest statement. It added: \'93We engage in countermeasures to protect our IP, including a careful process for which frontier capabilities to include in released models, and believe
\f1 \uc0\u8201 
\f0 .
\f1 \uc0\u8201 
\f0 .
\f1 \uc0\u8201 
\f0 . it is critically important that we are working closely with the US government to best protect the most capable models from efforts by adversaries and competitors to take US technology.\'94 OpenAI is battling allegations of its own copyright infringement from newspapers and content creators, including lawsuits from The New York Times and prominent authors, who accuse the company of training its models on their articles and books without permission.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Please use the sharing tools found via the share button at the top or side of articles. Copying articles to share with others is a breach of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ft.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 FT.com}} {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://help.ft.com/help/legal-privacy/terms-conditions/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 T&Cs}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://help.ft.com/help/legal-privacy/copyright/copyright-policy/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 Copyright Policy}}. Email {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:licensing@ft.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 licensing@ft.com}} to buy additional rights. Subscribers may share up to 10 or 20 articles per month using the gift article service. More information can be {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ft.com/tour"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 found here}}. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.ft.com/content/a3c06f8f-34ad-4065-bcf4-97670230824f"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 https://www.ft.com/content/a3c06f8f-34ad-4065-bcf4-97670230824f}}\
\
Czech central bank head wants it to buy billions of euros in bitcoin Governor tells FT \'91I like profitability\'92 and predicts others could follow his example Ale\'9a Michl: \'91Of course, if you compare my position with other bankers, then I\'92m the one entering the jungle, or the pioneer\'92 \'a9 Milan Jaros/Bloomberg Czech central bank head wants it to buy billions of euros in bitcoin on x (opens in a new window) Czech central bank head wants it to buy billions of euros in bitcoin on facebook (opens in a new window) Czech central bank head wants it to buy billions of euros in bitcoin on linkedin (opens in a new window) Share Save Pro Features Configuration current progress 100% Raphael Minder in Prague 6 HOURS AGO 231 Print this page Get ahead with daily markets updates.Join the FT's WhatsApp channel The head of the Czech National Bank wants to plough billions of euros\'92 worth of the country\'92s reserves into bitcoin, a groundbreaking move that could make it the first western central bank known to hold crypto assets. Governor Ale\'9a Michl told the Financial Times that he would present a plan to the board to invest in bitcoin as a way of diversifying the CNB\'92s reserves at a meeting on Thursday. Should the board approve this, then the CNB could eventually hold as much as 5 per cent of its \'80140bn of reserves in bitcoin, he said. While acknowledging bitcoin\'92s \'93extreme volatility\'94 and limited record, Michl highlighted wider investor interest in bitcoin since BlackRock and other companies last year launched bitcoin exchange traded funds. He also pointed to US President Donald Trump\'92s pledges on deregulation and the growing influence of cryptocurrency executives over his administration. In an executive order last week, Trump set up a working group to evaluate the creation of a national digital asset stockpile. \'93For the diversification of our assets, bitcoin seems good,\'94 Michl said in an interview. \'93Those [Trump] guys can now kind of create some bubble for bitcoin, but I think the trend would be an increase without those guys as well, because it\'92s an alternative [investment] for more people.\'94 Federal Reserve chair Jay Powell confirmed in December that the US central bank did not hold any bitcoin as it was not in the list of assets Congress allowed it to purchase. \'93We are not looking for a law change at the Fed,\'94 Powell said at the time. Central banks have traditionally parked their reserves in conservative assets such as US Treasuries and other forms of highly rated bonds. Some have holdings in equities, but almost none have publicly ventured into crypto. Michl said he had \'93a totally different philosophy\'94 about bitcoin to his counterparts. \'93Of course, if you compare my position with other bankers, then I\'92m the one entering the jungle, or the pioneer,\'94 Michl said. \'93I used to run an investment fund, so I\'92m a typical investment banker I would say, I like profitability.\'94 Among central bankers to have warned about the risks of investing in cryptocurrencies is the governor of the Bundesbank, Joachim Nagel, who this month compared bitcoin to \'93digital tulips\'94, a reference to a 17th century speculative bubble and then collapse in the price of the bulbs. European Central Bank officials wrote last year that \'93the fair value of bitcoin is still zero\'94, adding that \'93bitcoin is not suitable as means of payment or as an investment\'94, while former ECB official Beno\'eet C\'9cur\'e9 has previously referred to bitcoin as the \'93evil spawn of the financial crisis\'94. El Salvador has been a rare, prominent backer of crypto, making it legal tender in 2021. The government holds 6,048 bitcoins in its treasury, worth about $621mn, according to its National Bitcoin Office. But the Central American country scaled back its crypto ambitions late last year to reach a funding deal with the IMF. In addition, some central banks are piloting digital currencies, partly in response to the threat posed by cryptocurrencies. Michl said more central banks could follow his lead within the next five years, just as several funds and commercial banks had recently changed tack and added crypto to their portfolios. Some pension funds have begun investing in crypto. However, he added that the investment could prove to be worthless. \'93It\'92s possible to have a big range of outcomes, that bitcoin will have a value of zero or an absolutely fantastic value
\f1 \uc0\u8201 
\f0 .
\f1 \uc0\u8201 
\f0 .
\f1 \uc0\u8201 
\f0 .
\f1 \uc0\u8201 
\f0 but in our history we have also had some stocks like Enron or the payment company Wirecard, so we have some experience with bad investments, so, yes, I\'92m ready [for a possible Bitcoin collapse],\'94 he said. \'93But I\'92m saying that my goal is to diversify the portfolio, so if bitcoin is good [for that], then let\'92s have it.\'94 If the Czech bank had held 5 per cent of its foreign reserves in bitcoin over the past decade, its annual returns would have increased by 3.5 percentage points, but would have also doubled in volatility, according to the CNB. Michl said any large investment by a central bank in a bitcoin ETF could in itself impact the coin\'92s price. \'93Five per cent [of our assets] is a lot of money, even for the bitcoin market,\'94 he said.\'a0 The central bank\'92s \'80140bn in foreign exchange reserves are equivalent to about 45 per cent of the Czech Republic\'92s GDP. The CNB already stands out among central banks because 22 per cent of its portfolio is in equities, and Michl wants half of that to be in US shares in about three years\'92 time, up from 30 per cent currently. \'93We are buying gradually and in very small steps because the [US stock] prices are the highest in history,\'94 he said. The Czech Republic is one of seven EU countries to have stayed outside the Eurozone, but in his New Year\'92s address to the nation President Petr Pavel revived the debate by urging a switch to the euro. He argued that \'93it would certainly promote our future prosperity if [salaries] were to be paid in the European currency, just as they are in Germany\'94. Recommended Eswar Prasad Crypto is celebrating but Trump\'92s boosterism could end badly However, Michl dismissed this idea, saying there was not enough price convergence or public support to abandon the Czech koruna in the foreseeable future. \'93Our president is a military strategist and I\'92m an economist,\'94 Michl said, referring to Pavel\'92s background as a Nato commander. \'93If you have political problems, it can be good to have the euro, but being independent and having an independent voice on monetary policy seems good for us to fight inflation.\'94 He added it was \'93very likely\'94 that his bank would cut interest rates by 25 basis points next week from 4 per cent, resuming a cycle of rate cuts that began in December 2023.}